>> Steve Kinney: This whole time
we've had a menu up here, and
it's done pretty well for us.
It has most of the default things.
On macOS it has this application menu.
We've got an edit, a view,
where we can toggle the developer tools.
You might not wanna have
the developer tools.
You might wanna have any of
these buttons that are up here,
you might wanna have just in
the actual application menu, right?
On macOS it's along the top, on Windows
and Linux is part of the window itself.
We open up Visual Studio code,
you can see that we have custom menus here
that are very pertinent to Visual Studio.
If we flip over to the GitHub app, there
is a GitHub specific application menu.
If I switch over to Hyper,
it is slimmed down, but
again, custom to that application.
So clearly, we know this is something
that's possible to do an Electron,
we just need to do it.
So we have two modules,
you'll really only be using one of them.
Menus are built out of menu items.
You can theoretically extentiate
a whole bunch of these menu items and
put them all together.
That is really tedious and
I wouldn't necessarily recommend it.
I would treat menu item as
a implementation detail.
The one we care about is this menu module,
which we'll pull in in our main process.
So bring in,
>> Steve Kinney: Menu, as well.
So you can see there's menu and menu item.
A menu has many menu items, right?
But Electron gives a syntax where can
basically take objects in arrays to
define the structure of our menus,
and then Electron will go ahead and
create all the menu items on our behalf,
and wire it all up.
So the one that we're gonna use in this
case, if we scroll down to the bottom.
We can type menu and we can see
that there's a bunch of methods.
The one that I'm kind of interested
in is buildFromTemplate.
This is where you give it an object, or
an array objection of basic JavaScript
data structures, and then it will go
ahead and build the menu out of that for
you, and then you can set
an application menu, or whatever.
Kinda you actually create context menus,
we'll see later with this as well.
It's for creating any type of
menu that you wanna create,
we can use this menu constructor.
So let's make a really,
really, simple menu template,
just to try it out for a spin.
So we'll say, template.
We could do this all inline.
We'll see in a second why I'm
making it its own object.
And we'll go ahead and
we'll make that an array.
>> Steve Kinney: And
we'll put the first object in it.
This is gonna be our
first kind of menu item.
And we'll it give the label of file.
>> Steve Kinney: And
then we could also give it,
another property that it'll
take is the sub menu, right?
Cuz we know we have the menus along the
top here, and then there's a sub menu, and
sub menus can have more sub menus,
and so on and so forth.
So I'll say submenu,
which is another array.
And we'll give that one
a label of Open File.
And they can take methods,
click in this case,
and we'll just say console.log,
Open File, right?
So a very simple menu, it's just a file
menu, which has one item on it that
doesn't really do anything, and right now
it's just an array of JavaScript objects.
To turn that into a menu,
we'll say, const applicationMenu =
Menu.buildFromTemplate, I'll
pass it that template.
Okay, So we've took a template,
we turned that into a menu, but it doesn't
really know what that menu's for yet.
Again, that could be a context
menu from when they right-click.
There's various places we can put
menus in an Electron application.
We wanna set it as an application menu.
And,
>> Steve Kinney: You can see that there is
a method called setApplicationMenu,
so that seems good.
We have an application menu, we have
a method called setApplicationMenu,
I can see where this is
gonna come together, right?
We do need to wait for
the application to be ready.
So we can do all this,
we can do the setup at the top level.
What we'll wanna do is app.on ready.
We'll say,
>> Steve Kinney: Menu.setApplicationMenu,
applicationMenu, nope.
>> Steve Kinney: Got a little carried
away with auto-complete there.
Okay, this'll change the main process, so
I will need to kill it and restart it.
So depending on what
operating system you're on,
you're gonna see something
slightly different.
If you look at the data structure that
we created, the first menu is File.
If you're on Windows or Linux,
you're like, yeah looks good to me.
I see a file menu.
I don't see what your problem is
right now, everything's great.
If I switch back over in macOS land,
you can see that it's called Electron.
It does have the open file there, but
it totally ignored the fact that
the first menu should be File, and
this is because in macOS the first
menu is the application menu, right?
So for everyone else this is great.
For MacOS, we need to make a new first
menu that is the application menu.
So that's slightly problematic, and
this comes the for the first time
in this workshop where we're gonna have
to kind of have a diversion code path for
one particular operating system.
When we passed in main window into the
show open dialogue or show save dialog,
right, Windows and Linux users were like,
it didn't matter, right?
We didn't have to do
a conditional in there.
When we set it, the represented file, or
set document edited, that didn't matter
for Windows or Linux, it just was an extra
little bell and whistle for macOS.
This is the first time where we
are going to have to write a conditional
to see what platform am I on, and
depending on that platform,
I need to do something slightly different.
Cool, so the big question is,
what platform are we on?
Luckily, Node already has a way of
telling what platform it's running on, so
we can hook into that.
So what we'll do is,
>> Steve Kinney: We'll write
a conditional.
If process.platform, and
this will give you, I think,
either Win32, I don't remember all of
them, they're in the note documentation.
The one we care about is Darwin,
which is the kind of underbelly of macOS.
All right, so the platform will
be Darwin if we're on macOS,
it will not be Darwin if
we're on Windows or Linux.
At one point in my younger years,
I knew what the other two were, but
that has long gone from my brain.
So if that's true, then we're gonna need
to kind of put something at the beginning
of the array, that's gonna be
that application menu, right?
So we could say something like const
applicationName, I'll call it Fire Sale.
This won't really matter right now.
It'll only matter when we package the
application, because that's when we build.
Right now we're using a version of
Electron that's kind of in our node
modules folder.
When we actually build the application,
that'll be when we actually
re-brand Electron.
That's why we've always
gotten the Electron icon.
So you can call it whatever you want.
It's still gonna say Electron up
in that menu until we actually
build our own bespoke version.
So we'll say const applicationName.
And we'll take that template, unshift
is the array method that puts something
on to the beginning of an array.
Push we use all the time.
Push puts stuff onto the end of the array,
unshift will put something onto
the beginning of the array,
shift will take it off the beginning
of the array, so on and so forth.
So we'll actually push one
more item on there, and
we'll go ahead and we'll just make
another menu item in this case.
And this one will be a label
of that application name.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool,
and that'll give us a sub
menu,
>> Steve Kinney: And we can say,
give another one of,with a label of.
If I flip over to the general application,
it's About, and there's Quit.
That has the name of the application
in there, so let's do that.
We give it a label of
About applicationName.
>> Steve Kinney: We're
gonna leave that for now,
and then we'll add another one
of label Quit applicationName.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, so
we'll push that on to the beginning of
the array if we are on Darwin,
or macOS, in this case.
Currently in macOS, what we'll do is
we'll put a new menu item before.
That'll be some of the things we
normally find in this application menu.
Right now, we're just gonna start
with About and Quit, but clearly,
we could put the rest of
these in place as well.
They don't do anything yet, and we'll talk
a little bit about how to wire them up,
but let's actually go ahead and
just verify that they show up at all.
So, we've got a menu, and you can
see now there is About and Quit, and
the file menu shows up.
If you're on Windows or Linux,
you should see no change from
the previous thing that we did,
because that was a conditional path only
from macOS to put that window in place.
Now, you might choose to have a quit
menu in file whatever you wanna do.
You might have to write more conditional
code for those other operating systems,
if there was stuff in here that you want
somewhere else on Windows or Linux, but
generally speaking, this'll work.
Now, these menu items
don't do anything yet.
Well, this one will console log, right,
you can see it in the window behind me.
It will console log,
even though, is it really click?
Cuz I'm dragging it,
releasing, I don't know.
So we could, for instance,
add a click here, and
we'll say when they do
that we'll say app.quit
>> Steve Kinney: So now,
we can quit the app with that menu.
What I can't do however,
>> Steve Kinney: Is hit Cmd+Q or Ctrl+Q.
No hot key works.
In fact, it's even worse.
I can't select all.
If I do select all,
I can't copy and paste.
Why can't I copy and paste?
Because when I dismissed
Electron's default menu,
I took away those menu items.
I took away the keyboard shortcuts
associated with those menu items.
So should you decide you're gonna build
your own custom application menu,
this is a, unfortunately,
an all-in kinda endeavor, right?
It's that you need to
effectively take over.
They gave you one,
you said you didn't want it, so
now it's on you to build your own.